### Pluggable Autentication Modules
This chapter is based on the [Red Hat Documentation](https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_enterprise_linux/7/html/system-level_authentication_guide/pluggable_authentication_modules).
Pluggable Authentication Modules (PAM) central way to authenticate. PAMs offer different types of authentication (Kerberos, NIS, local filesystem) and are therefor called pluggable. 

Because of its pluggable nature PAM gives administrators great flexibility on configuring authentication on systems.
PAM can be used by a wide range of applications.

On RedHat Systems the tools `authconfig` or `authselect` are recommended to configure PAM, on Ubuntu the configuration files are edited directly.

The configurations files are `/etc/pam.conf` or any file in `/etc/pam.d` (if `/etc/pam.d` exists `/etc/pam.conf` will be ignored).
Each of these files should consist of multiple rule lines. Each rule-line has a syntax as follows:

~~~~~
service type control module-path module-arguments
~~~~~
(For files in the `/etc/pam.d` the service field is omitted, instead the name of the file references the service)

~~~~~
auth       substack     system-auth
auth       include      postlogin
account    required     pam_nologin.so
...
~~~~~

Above is an excerpt of the content of the */etc/pam.d/login* file. In the first line the **auth** content of the file */etc/pam.d/system-auth* is evalueted as an substack, meaning the statements will be checked, but if one fails only the substack fails. 
In the second line the **auth** content of the file */etc/pam.d/postlogin* gets included, meaning the auth lines in the file are evaluated, if one fails, the original stack fails too. In the third line the pam module *pam_nologin.so* gets included as required, meaning it succeeding is necessary to continue the stack, **pam_nologin.so** fails if the file */etc/nologin* exists.

The auth type calls are used to identify the user. The account type is used to grant/restrict access based on defined criteria, in the case of the *pam_noloing.so* module the presence of the *nologin* file.

#### Exercise
- Read the [manpage](http://manpages.ubuntu.com/manpages/bionic/man5/pam.conf.5.html) of *pam.conf* to learn more about types, controls and the general definition of the rules.
